An API gives you a very easy to use interface and point which allows you to use a perticular functionality without bothering about how it is built and what is the backend logic. This has made programmers life very easy because certain functionalities which take days to code now you can easily get it with the help of API.

How does it work?

Whenever you send any request from any application or from your laptop where you are using your application, it goes via the internet, tries to access the API service which you have called for , it takes whatever information you have asked from the web server,or from the subsequent database and then it sends the response to your application.

You would have seen a particular application form where in whenever you try to login , or try to access any new application for the first time, it asks you to authenticate yourself either by creating new sign up into this application or use facebook or google sign up. So what we are doing here is, we are using facebook and google apis to authenticate ourself and what the main application is doing is it uses those functionalities (facebook and google APIs for login). Whenever user clicks on facebook or google , it goes to the authentication API which goes to the backend service and then it passes back the authentication token which helps this particular user to authenticate himself login to this particular application. Now this application is also getting a massive help by exposing and utilizing these APIs (facebook and google ) because application programmers don't have to code this whole authentication and authorization logic within their own application. Secondly the APIs facebook and google are quite secure , so in terms of security it is very well equipped because it has protocols , security protocols which are way way advanced than this particular application. Any user who comes to your application can use these two functionalities to login to your application.
So it's a win win situation for everyone. 
	From a user perspective , it makes their life also easy because as a user you don't have to create multiple logins , store your passwords , create new passwords for every new application. 

Another good example to understand an API is your mobile. Suppose you are uploading your picture on instagram , then there is a button to upload it on facebook or twitter , what is that ? That is an API is being called from instagram to facebook or twitter and then that particular API ( facebook or twitter ) allows you to upload your picture on it while you are uploading it on instagram. So you understand that today's world every application is connected with these different different applications across the world , utilizing the best of all these applications throgh APIs.
 